OSDOCS#1116: OLMv1 Service accounts (#82245)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/olmv1-creating-a-service-account.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * extensions/ce/managing-ce.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="olmv1-creating-a-service-account_{context}"]
= Creating a service account to manage cluster extensions

Unlike {olmv0-first}, {olmv1} does not have permissions to install, update, and manage cluster extensions. Cluster administrators must create a service account and assign the role-based access controls (RBAC) required to install, update, and manage cluster extensions.

[IMPORTANT]
====
include::snippets/olmv1-known-issue-service-accounts.adoc[]
====

.Prerequisites

* Access to an {product-title} cluster using an account with `cluster-admin` permissions.

.Procedure

. Create a service account, similar to the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: <extension>-installer
  namespace: <namespace>
----
+
.Example `extension-service-account.yaml` file

> [%collapsible]

Reviewer: Food for thought: docs.redhat.com doesn't support `[%collapsible]` ( :sob: ). Worth just making these normal blocks?

Author: Good call. I debated this one, but in the end I wanted to keep it consistent with the rest of the Extensions docs set, where we make use of this design pattern a lot.

Author: Though it might make sense to drop them once d.o.c is gone.

====
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: pipelines-installer
  namespace: pipelines
----
====

. Apply the service account by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f extension-service-account.yaml
----
. Create a cluster role and assign RBAC, similar to the following example:
+
[WARNING]
====
The following cluster role does not follow the principle of least privilege. This cluster role is intended for testing purposes only. Do not use it on production clusters.
====
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: <extension>-installer-clusterrole
rules:
- apiGroups: ["*"]
  resources: ["*"]
  verbs: ["*"]
----
+
.Example `pipelines-cluster-role.yaml` file
[%collapsible]
====
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:

>   name: pipelines-installer

Reviewer 2: @michaelryanpeter per your change, it should be `pipelines-installer-clusterrole`

Author: @kuiwang02 addressed here: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/82245/commits/f8207a933bed47c88c904a0e822ab241a8837b51

Thank you!

Author: New commit link to the updated content: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/82245/commits/b9eb18737ceb3b9f1deec8e59d0fb603641aaba7

rules:
- apiGroups: ["*"]
  resources: ["*"]
  verbs: ["*"]
----
====

. Add the cluster role to the cluster by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f pipelines-role.yaml
----

. Bind the permissions granted by the cluster role to the service account by creating a cluster role binding, similar to the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: <extension>-installer-binding
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole

>   name: <extension>-installer-clusterrole

Reviewer 2: @michaelryanpeter per https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/82245/files#diff-e44e70381349dd00e73c99c547be95941927faeaf5958930c49b641c4db8c02dR65, it is `<extension>-installer`, not `<extension>-installer-clusterrole`, so better to make it consistent.

Author: I decided to update Line 65 to have a difference between the service account name and the cluster role name. 

Addressed here: https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/pull/82245/commits/80d0396c13a630304ad3ba5b87ed6a0e5222e42c#diff-e44e70381349dd00e73c99c547be95941927faeaf5958930c49b641c4db8c02dR65

subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: <extension>-installer
  namespace: <namespace>
----
+
.Example `pipelines-cluster-role-binding.yaml` file
[%collapsible]
====
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: pipelines-installer-binding
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: pipelines-installer-clusterrole
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: pipelines-installer
  namespace: pipelines
----
====

. Apply the cluster role binding by running the following command:
+

> [source,yaml]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[source,terminal]
```

[IMPORTANT]
====
include::snippets/olmv1-known-issue-service-accounts.adoc[]
====

.Prerequisites

* Access to an {product-title} cluster using an account with `cluster-admin` permissions.

.Procedure

. Create a service account, similar to the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: <extension>-installer
  namespace: <namespace>
----
+
.Example `extension-service-account.yaml` file
[%collapsible]
====
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: pipelines-installer
  namespace: pipelines
----
====

. Apply the service account by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f extension-service-account.yaml
----
. Create a cluster role and assign RBAC, similar to the following example:
+
[WARNING]
====
The following cluster role does not follow the principle of least privilege. This cluster role is intended for testing purposes only. Do not use it on production clusters.
====
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:

>   namespace: <namespace>

Reviewer 3: Namespace field isn't necessary for a ClusterRole, it is a cluster scoped object :)

  name: <extension>-installer
rules:
- apiGroups: ["*"]
  resources: ["*"]
  verbs: ["*"]
----
+
.Example `pipelines-cluster-role.yaml` file
[%collapsible]
====
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: pipelines-installer
rules:
- apiGroups: ["*"]
  resources: ["*"]
  verbs: ["*"]
----
====

> . Apply the cluster role to the service account by running the following command:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Add the cluster role to the cluster by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f pipelines-role.yaml
----

> . Create a cluster role binding, similar to the following example:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
. Bind the permissions granted by the cluster role to the service account by creating a cluster role binding, similar to the following example:
```

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * extensions/ce/managing-ce.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE

[id="olmv1-creating-a-service-account_{context}"]
= Creating a service account

Unlike {olmv0-first}, {olmv1} does not have permissions to install, update, and manage cluster extensions. Cluster administrators must create a service account and assign the role-based access controls (RBAC) required to install, update, and manage cluster extensions.

[IMPORTANT]
====
include::snippets/olmv1-known-issue-service-accounts.adoc[]
====

.Prerequisites

* Access to an {product-title} cluster using an account with `cluster-admin` permissions.

.Procedure

> . Create a service account custom resource (CR), similar to the following example:

Reviewer 3: 2 small things (being nit-picky here so feel free to ignore):
- service accounts aren't a "custom" resource, they are a part of Kube's core APIs. 
- Not sure about the standards in OCP docs, but I would typically expect a reference to an API to use the associated "kind". (i.e instead of "service account" I would expect something like "ServiceAccount")

Author: Thanks, Bryce. I'll remove mention of the CR.

Downstream, when we refer to the specific API, we use `ServiceAccount`, but when we make a general reference, like "create a service account," we use lower case.

+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: <extension>-installer
  namespace: <namespace>
----
+
.Example `extension-service-account.yaml` file
+
[source,yaml]
----
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: pipelines-installer
  namespace: pipelines
----

. Apply the service account CR by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc apply -f extension-service-account.yaml
----

> . Create a CR to assign the RBAC to the service account:

Reviewer 3: Nit: Similar to above, I'm pretty sure the RBAC APIs are shipped as part of core Kube and probably shouldn't be referred to as "custom resources".

+
[WARNING]
====

> The following role binding does not follow the principle of least privilege. Do not use this role binding on production clusters.

Reviewer 3: You mention "role binding" here but all that is shown is a `Role` resource. I would expect both a `Role` and `RoleBinding` to be present in this example.

The `Role` defines the permissions, the `RoleBinding` "binds" them to an entity (in this case the `ServiceAccount`)

Also worth noting, using only a `Role` and `RoleBinding` will not grant sufficient permissions if the ClusterExtension includes things that need to be applied at the "cluster" level (i.e `CustomResourceDefinitions`). This would likely need to be a `ClusterRole` and `ClusterRoleBinding` pairing if the intention is to give full admin permissions (like the permissions in the example `Role` suggests).

I would recommend addressing the above two things at a minimum.

Now for a bit of an aside - I'm not sure if there is any concerns with churn on this doc in particular, but as a reader I would probably hesitate reading the provided way to install something with OLMv1 is to give unfettered access to everything on my cluster to a particular `ServiceAccount`. I would _personally_ prefer we give a more granular set of RBAC resources that would work to install all supported bundles _without_ giving access to everything. I won't block this from going in solely based on this though.

If you are interested in narrowing the set of permissions to be more explicit, I'm happy to help experiment and find the "sweet spot" of the minimal set of permissions that is still open enough to install all of the currently supported bundles.

Author: Unfortunately, there is going to be a lot of churn with this doc. My intention is to document the most restrictive permissions that will still work and install the supported cluster extensions in the RH catalogs.

Author: I fully intend to have to change and update this doc for 4.18/when the known issue referenced in this doc is backported.
